完善更新 [制作第一个小游戏] (#1532)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/getting-started/first-game/index.md

### A "Game Manager" can help

Most games have a __manager__, which is mainly responsible for the management of the entire game life-cycle. You can put the code for the dynamic creation of the road in this same manager. Create a node named `GameManager` in the __Hierarchy__ panel, then create a TypeScript file named `GameManager` in the `assets/Scripts` folder of the __Assets__ panel and mount it to the `GameManager` node.

![gamemanager](./images/gamemanager.png)

### Making a Prefab

For a node that needs to be generated repeatedly, it can be saved as a [Prefab](../../asset/prefab.md) resource. This means it can be used as a template when we dynamically generate other nodes of this same type.

Create a folder named `Prefabs` in **Assets** panel, and drag and drop the `Cube` node from the **Hierarchy** panel into that folder to create a Prefab resource named `Cube`.

![create cube prefab](./images/create-cube-prefab.gif)

> It is necessary to make the basic element `cube` of the road into a __Prefab__, after which all three cubes in the __Scene__ can be deleted. Next, we will use the Cube's Prefab resource to dynamically generate the Cube in the script.

Reviewer: we will use
-->
use

}
```

> After saving the script and returning to the editor, you can see the new `CubePrfb` and `RoadLength` properties in the `GameManager` script component of the `GameManager` node. Then drag and drop the Cube's prefab resource from the __Assets__ panel into the `CubePrfb` property box.

Reviewer: you can see
-->
notice

![assign cube prefab](./images/assign-cube-prefab.png)

The `RoadLength` property is used to set the length of the runway. At this point, click the __Preview__ button to see the automatically generated runway:

![runway](./images/runway.gif)

> However, since the `Camera` does not follow the `Player`, we cannot see the runway afterwards, so we can set the `Main Camera` node as a child of the `Player` node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, since the `Camera` does not follow the `Player`, the runway isn't visible afterward, set the `Main Camera` node as a child of the `Player` node:
```

![drag camera to player](./images/drag-camera-to-player.gif)

> The Camera will then follow the Player's movement, and you can now click the __Preview__ button again to see the resulting runway from start to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Camera will then follow the Player's movement. Click the __Preview__ button again to see the resulting runway from start to finish.
```

![runway](./images/runway-follow.gif)

## Adding a start menu

The __start menu__ is an indispensable part of most any game. Add the game name, game introduction, production staff and other information here. Creating a simple start menu starts with some basic steps:

1. Click the Create (__+__) button in the top left corner of the __Hierarchy__ panel, select __UI Components -> Button__ to add a Button node and name it `PlayButton`.

    ![create button](./images/create-button.png)

>     You can see that a `Canvas` node, a `Camera` node, a `PlayButton` node, and a `Label` node are generated. Since any parent node of a UI node must have at least one `UITransform` component, a `Canvas` node is automatically created as the root node of the UI node if the rules are not met when creating the UI node, as described in the [UI Architecture](../../ui-system/components/engine/index.md) documentation.

Reviewer: You can see that
-->
Notice that

    Then change the __String__ property in `cc.Label` on the `Label` node from __button__ to __Play__.

    ![label-string](./images/label-string.png)

2. Select the `Canvas` node in the **Hierarchy** panel, right click and select __Create -> Empty Node__, name it `StartMenu`, then drag and drop the `PlayButton` under `StartMenu` to become its child node. We can switch to __2D editing view__ for UI editing operation by clicking __2D/3D__ button in the toolbar at the top left of the editor, please refer to the [View Introduction](../../editor/scene/index.md) documentation for details.

    ![2d-view](./images/2d-view.png)

> 3. Then select the `StartMenu` node, right click and select __Create -> 2D Object -> Sprite__, create a new Sprite node named `BG` as background box, and drag it to the top of the `PlayButton` node.

Reviewer: Then
-->
Next,

    ![create bg sprite](./images/create-bg-sprite.png)

>     Then adjust the __ContentSize__ property of the `cc.UITransform` of the `BG` node in the __Inspector__ panel as needed, for example to `(200, 200)`. Also drag and drop the `internal/default_ui/default_sprite_splash` from the __Assets__ panel into the __SpriteFrame__ property box.

Reviewer: Then adjust
-->
Adjust

Reviewer: Also drag and drop
-->
Also, drag and drop

    ![change spriteFrame](./images/change-spriteFrame.png)

4. Select the `StartMenu` node in the __Hierarchy__ panel, right-click and select __Create -> 2D Object -> Label__ to create a Label node named `Title` as the title of the start menu.

    ![add title label](./images/add-label-title.png)

5. Modify the properties of the `Title` node in the __Inspector__ panel as needed, such as `Position`, `Color`, `String`, `FontSize`, etc.

    ![modify title](./images/title-inspector.png)

6. Add as many Tips nodes as needed, then adjust the position and property values of each UI node, and a simple start menu is complete.

    ![modify title](./images/start-menu.png)

## Add game status logic

Add game state logic, generally it can be divided into three states:

1. **Init**: display the game menu and initialize some resources.
2. **Playing**: hide the game menu, players can operate the game.
3. **End**: end the game and display the ending menu.

Each of these states can be represented using an `enum` type, adding the following to the `GameManager` script:

```ts
enum BlockType{
    BT_NONE,
    BT_STONE,
};

enum GameState{
    GS_INIT,
    GS_PLAYING,
    GS_END,
};
```

> Then continue adding a private variable that represents the current state to the `GameManager` script.

Reviewer: Then continue
-->
Continue

```ts
private _curState: GameState = GameState.GS_INIT;
```

> In order to allow the player to operate the character while the game is in progress rather than at the beginning of the game, we need to dynamically turn on/off the character's listening to mouse messages. Add the `setInputActive()` method to the `PlayerController` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to allow the player to operate the character while the game is in progress rather than at the beginning of the game, it is necessary to dynamically turn on/off the character's listening to mouse messages. Add the `setInputActive()` method to the `PlayerController` script.
```

```ts
start () {
    // Your initialization goes here.
    systemEvent.on(SystemEvent.EventType.MOUSE_UP, this.onMouseUp, this);
}

setInputActive(active: boolean) {
    if (active) {
        systemEvent.on(SystemEvent.EventType.MOUSE_UP, this.onMouseUp, this);
    } else {
        systemEvent.off(SystemEvent.EventType.MOUSE_UP, this.onMouseUp, this);
    }
}
```

> Next, reference `PlayerController` script in the `GameManager` script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, reference the `PlayerController` script in the `GameManager` script:
```

```ts
@property({type: PlayerController})
public playerCtrl: PlayerController|null = null;
```

> To reference the `PlayerController` script you also need to import the `PlayerController` script at the beginning of the `GameManager` script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reference the `PlayerController` script, import the `PlayerController` script at the beginning of the `GameManager` script:
```

```ts
import { _decorator, Component, Prefab, instantiate, Node, CCInteger } from "cc";
// Import "PlayerController" script
import { PlayerController } from "./PlayerController";
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
```

In order to dynamically enable/disable the start menu, it is also necessary to reference the `StartMenu` node in the `GameManager` script:

```ts
@property({type: Node})
public startMenu: Node|null = null;
```

> After saving the script and returning to the editor, drag the `Player` node with the `PlayerController` script mounted and the `StartMenu` node in the __Hierarchy__ panel to the `playerCtrl` and `startMenu` property boxes of the `GameManager` node, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After saving the script and returning to the editor, drag the `Player` node with the `PlayerController` script attached and the `StartMenu` node in the __Hierarchy__ panel to the `playerCtrl` and `startMenu` property boxes of the `GameManager` node, respectively.
```
